**Joe Vernon**

# The institute of engineering and technology.

The IET is an organisation with the purpose of representing engineering and
engineers across many different platforms, and help engineers develop skills
throughout their careers. One of their main functions in the UK is to advise
Parliament on important engineering related issues, achieved through their many
policy panels. Recently, there has been a big focus on the energy policy panel
which has the task of advising the government on how to reduce carbon emissions
affordably while maintaining resilient energy sources.

The organisation offers many scholarships and awards which can be available to
undergraduates studying engineering, and they can also fund postgraduate
research into engineering related topics. The IET also provides academic
accreditation which helps standardise engineering courses and makes sure
qualifications are worth something worldwide - not just in the country that
awarded it. Because the organisation is so trusted in this accreditation, what
they say can have an effect on the content of engineering courses because they
provide a baseline on what is required for a profession. Having a qualification
from one of these accredited programmes will make the process of becoming
registered as an incorporated or chartered engineer much more straight forward.
Those designations (IEng and CEng) can be awarded by the IET on behalf of the
'Engineering council UK' and are recognised world wide.

A big part of the IET's function is to help people stay informed, to this end,
they have a section on their website for 'factfiles' provide information on new
technology and issues. The idea being that because so many people can view these
documents, anything included that isn't a fact will be noticed very quickly so
they provide a source of information that the reader should be able to trust.
This is not only helpful for someone studying engineering but also for the
general public as they can provide information on health issues and may even be
factors people use to help them decide what to vote for.

More specific to engineers and less so to the general public we have the IET
digital library, which is a massive collection of papers from many different
sections of engineering which can be used to research just about any topic in
engineering or computing. They also run IET.tv which is a collection of
lectures, training videos, and presentations on a wide range of topics. This is
a massive resource for anyone studying engineering or just wishing to expand
their knowledge.

The IET website also includes lots of information and resources related to
professional development including information about different professional
designations and relevant training courses. Additionally, IET lets engineers
communicate with others who have common technical interests which aids in the
development of ideas and acts as a source of advice from more experienced
professionals.

**references**

**www.theiet.org**

**www.engc.org.uk**
